# Script

### Introduction

Facilitator: Tena Koutou katoa, Ko Shania ahau. Over the years there has been an increase in the amount of community led projects that aim to provide support and help people. However a lot of community projects can touch upon sensitive topics that can often unintentionally cause harm to people's wellbeing, this often occurs from a lack of knowledge on the topic. In these situations it would be beneficial for the community to consult scientists with specific knowledge and experties in the area of interest. We will use our own diciplins including Psychology, Computer Science and Chemistry to discuss what circumstances communities should seek advices from scientists in the development of a new initative.

From the perspective of psychology, psychologists can be described as science’s equivalent to peanut butter while humans are the jelly, so psychologists are closely linked to people and their wellbeing. Consulting a psychologist becomes important when a community’s project involves someone’s mental health or behaviour. Any initiatives that involve someone’s mental wellbeing have the potential to raise ethical concerns as improper use of support techniques can lead to further harm. For example, following the rapid increase in acceptance of mental health many new community initiatives involve support groups. These are groups designed to provide a safe place for people to talk about their problems, such as those suffering from depression. However, if not monitored or created carefully these groups can lead to more harm than good. Psychologists can provide techniques and methods that help people feel safe and allow them to open up in a place without judgement. Without this safe, the pressure of opening up in front of strangers or potential bullying could cause their mental wellbeing to plummet, essentially harming the person. It is in this situation that psychologists become an essential person for communities to consult when creating similar initiatives.

It is important to note that psychology is not the only standpoint that can help the wellbeing of the community. It is important for other areas to help enforce this notion and help the community in what ever way possible.

Computer Science: Tena Koutou Katoa, Ko Jordan ahau. In the ever-growing age of the Internet, it is important to make sure that the community is living in a safe and ethical environment, although one may think that the main focus of computer science is to make networking and computing more and more efficient, it also focuses on the ethics of networking. As we become more globalized and the Internet is becoming ever more present in our lives. Computer scientist have come to ask the question; how can we ethically regulate events of mass discrimination, cyberbullying, and the growing issue of widespread false information? To filter and regulate the Internet is an extremely difficult task, possibly an infeasible one. Still, when creating new initatives, it is imperative that we address computer scientists and other related fields in this process, especially when these decisions can have racial or misogynistic implications.

One instance of where this issue has taken precedent was around the controlling of the Corona Virus. The media, along with government officials and respectable journals, were all spouting misinformation that has led to rallies against the virus in the middle of state-wide lockdowns. To ensure that this does not happen in the future when challenging and bringing on new initiatives, we must include the relevant specialists in the planning process and proceed with care in the pursuit of similar initiatives.
