# Exam Revision study for final

## 2017 Past Paper

1. User interface modes and Norman’s model of interaction.
  a. (3 points) What is a user interface mode?
    + User interface mode
  b. (6 points) Sketch Norman’s Model of Interaction and briefly explain the meaning of each of the elements in your sketch.
    + Helps the designers role in designing a useable interface for a thinking user. The designers model is the designers concept of what the user interface should
    look like and acomplish (hopefully is fairly thought out). The system image is how the interface appears to be used and what it can offer the User. The User's model
    identifies predicted behaviour and has been refined through testing and feedback. 
  c. (4 points) With reference to your sketch of Norman’s Model of Interaction, explain the cause of mode errors.
    + Modes are different interpretations of the user input by the system, depending on the state of which is active. Same input, different results. `...`
  d. (4 points) With reference to your sketch of Norman’s Model of Interaction, explain why designers are often blind to the usability of their designs.
    + Due to the fact that the developer already has complete knowledge of the system and how the system is used, they have an exclusive knowledge that allows
    them to avoid the `Gulf of Execution`, as they have a pre-determined knowledge of how the system works. Designers also avoid the `Gulf of Evaluation` as they
    also are familiar with the states and how they interact with other states/modes.

2. Design and formative evaluation.
  a. (2 points) What is a user interface storyboard?
    + A User interface storyboard is a set of sketches that shows interactions and state transitions over the design, they use annotations and visual indication
    of how to change states and how to navigate the interface.
  b. (4 points) What are the key characteristics of a ‘task scenario’ (also known as a ‘task description’) in Task-Centred System Design?
    + Task scenarios are user based use cases for the interface meaning they are concrete and defined by the user, these are used for UI validation
  c. (6 points) Explain in detail, possibly with use of a clarifying figure, the process that is used to evaluate a user interface storyboard design with respect to a task scenario.
    + The first stage is to Identify User categories, define them and flesh out how different user groups will use the interface differently. Get user feedback to
    create tasks in order to evaluate the interface (later) and find out what the user groups want from the design. The next stage is to cut out low-priority tasks and
    identify tasks that are beyond the scope of the interface. Then create categories of tasks and designs that address the task-scenarios provided by the users. Evaluate these categories
    of tasks and their corresponding designs, identify and record design flaws and then fix them and re-create the design to implement these faults.
  d. (8 points) Imagine that you have been employed by TradeYou (a company that hosts online auctions) to help in the design of a mobile app for accessing their facilities, 
  and that they have asked you to provide two task scenarios for the task of purchasing a car. Write the two task scenarios that you would provide to TradeYou.
    + **Listing Item: LI15:** Jordan Pyott would like to list his car on `TradeYou`, would like to add a description of his car, number of kilometers done, auction price
    and a buy now for his vehicle.
    + **Similar Items: SI12** Jordan Pyott would like to find similar items to his listing in order to get a feel for the current market for his vehicle. Jordan would like
    to identify if he could auction his car for more than he currently thinks its worth.

3. Some HCI terminology.
  a. (2 points) Identify two key differences between saccadic and smooth pursuit eye movements.
    + Smooth pursuit eye movements use the fovea and have much slower tracking time then saccadic pursuit eye movement, saccadic pursuit is used for
    fast and "jumps" rather than follows the movement.
  b. (2 points) Provide an example of a user interface activity that involves smooth pursuit eye move-ment.
    + Scrolling in order to read text on the screen (not super fast scrolling).
  c. (2 points) What is proprioception, and provide an example user interface activity that involves proprioception.
    + The awareness and perception of where the users body is (knowing where limbs are currently without thinking about it). An example of an interface that involves this
    is the Xbox gesture device, this tracks arm movements in order to control the interface. It also has a callabration feature that allows it to figure out when users are
    close to the TV or other adjacent objects.
  d. (3 points) In iterative user interface design, explain the key differences between elaborative and reductive design.
    + Iterative design is about refining ideas in order to end up with the best possible design further down the line. Elaborative design is about getting the right design
    through methods such as finding opportunities to improve design. However reductive design is about getting the design right via making good descisions in order to benefit
    the design.


4. Formal evaluation.
  a. (2 points) Clearly describe the difference between within-subjects and between-subjects assignment to experimental conditions.
    + Within-subjects is a method used when collecting data, it's defining trait is to get all test case users to evaluate all tasks, this contrasts with between-subjects
    as when collecting data using between-subjects, users will only do one of the tasks each. Meaning that using within-subjects will need a smaller sample size of candidates.
    However we must account for the learing rate of the candidate tester's.
  b. (4 points) State two key reasons that experimenters often choose within-subjects assignment to experimental conditions rather than between-subjects.
    + Need a smaller sample size of people in order to be useful
    + Participants act as their own control, meaning that we are testing the same users on all interface aspects and do not have to account for extreme cases of users (when comparing tasks)
  c. (1 point) Provide an example situation in which between-subjects assignment to experimental conditions is required.
    + If we want to compare University courses and get reviews on the course. Users cannot take all courses, so we are left with the subset of users who took the course to be compared to another subset of users who took another course.
  d. (3 points) What is the main experimental concern associated with within-subjects assignment, and how is the concern normally mitigated?
    + Needing to control for the learning rate of the user (as well as fatigue) of the user, as users will get more or less efficient by doing more tasks, then it is hard to evaluate which design is better or if the user is just improving workflow.
  e. (3 points) What is a null hypothesis?
    + A null hypothesis is a type of hypothesis used in statistics that proposes that there is no difference between certain characteristics of a population
    + This means that the null hypothesis is a measure of how extreme the population would have to be in order to be more extreme than our sample **I think?**
  f. (3 points) As precisely as possible, state what the p value represents when calculated as part of a null-hypothesis significance test?
  g. (4 points) What is the ‘file drawer effect’ (a.k.a. ‘bottom drawer effect’) and how can it influence scientific knowledge?
