## Image Two evaluation

The design outlined in Image 2 is elegant and clear and implements a number of Nielsen's heuristics of design and usability, it is simple and uses natural dialogue, as it does not contain irrelevant information or introduce features that do not benefit the overall design, the usability and design of the 'today view' schema (top left of Image 2) is clear and well defined, it displays the information of 'Today's Chores' with maximum simplicity and does not introduce features that are unlikely to be used. It implements a way for users to have flexibility and control on providing notes for tenants to implement their own system of specifying information needed to complete the tasks/chores. The design also speaks the user's language, as all elements of the design can be mapped to real world events. The calendar maps directly to the calender the users have used all their life, the chores are defined and have a relation to real life chores and names translate to different users. This design also minimises the users memory load. The user should not have to remember information to navigate from one part of the design to another, instructions should be clearly stated and defined. The design achieves this by having labeled buttons to navigate from the 'today view' to the calendar, it also achieves this by implementing the functionality from the calender, by clicking on an day, the user is able to see all the chores allocated on said day. The homepage has a minimal design that will allow users to move between segments of the application in a efficient manner. Other traits of good design found in the design include feedback provided through the use of notifications and a shortcut to allow the user to directly from the 'today view' to the calendar.

Some of the heuristics outlined in Nielsen's heuristics of design and usability are not met with the design outlined in Image 2. There is not distinct interface to remove chores from the calendar itself or to create chores and notes, it is also not defined how moving through the pages will work. This design should implement some features from the design outlined in Image 1. Namely, the navigation bar to switch more effectively between pages, this will provide direct linking to the most visited pages (today's view and calendar).

