SENG301 2020 Exam past paper
----------------------------

## Question 1 Continuous integration and deployment - 10 marks for whole question

This strategy has at least 5 flaws that are either technical (i.e. the 
way the sources are managed) or methodological (i.e. the way the team 
works). Identify them and for each flaw, give actual advice on how to 
improve the current strategy. Focus your answer on the flaws and give 
solutions on how to improve them, but do not re-explain a git flow.

**Bullets**

- Git version control
- Scrum sprint backlog
- stories
  * developers pull latest developer branch into feature branch
  * They work in pairs to implement all tasks linked to a feature during
    the sprint and merge the feature branch into developer branch **close
    to end of sprint**.
  * Manual tests are carried out in isolation on each feature branch
- Merging
  * development stops and each pair usually spends 1/2 a day merging
  * A round-robin approach is used for all pairs to merge.
  * When all features are merged, each pair starts manually testing features
    of the other team following the manual test plan set out in the sprint plan.
  * If a story is discovered to be buggy, it is commented out and the code will be
    re-worked during next sprint.

**Answer**

During the development process, when implementing stories, it may be beneficial to 
allow all developers to work on available stories, this is due to the fact that
some stories during the sprint may be higher priority than others or significantly
more difficult, the current methodology of development has no way to allocate more
*programming power* towards a specific story due to complexity or priority.

The second issue in the development of stories is that *"they merge feature branches
to the developer branch close to the end of the sprint"*, this gives less time for
managing conflicts and doesn't allow for smooth transition when tasks are `related`
on each other. This would better be managed by updating the developer branch more often,
one method of approaching this is during sprint planning, identify related tasks and
once related tasks are finished and have been reviewed, they can then be pushed.

The third identified issue is with the implementation of code reviews, by manually testing
full stories at the end of a sprint, it is likely that bugs will be missed and pushed to
master/main more often. An alternative method for approaching code reviews would be to have
two other developers review each task throughout the sprint, log this on Jira. Once these
have been accepted and spotted bugs have been patched, then it is ready to be pushed to development.
This will keep the development branch predominantly bug free, resulting in less cross-branch
bug fixes when pulling from the development branch as well as decrease the number of bugs
on the production branch.

After the merge, stories should be reviewed a second time to make sure that their are no mistakes
when merging stray branches to master, if tasks are incomplete/buggy, they should be removed completely
to preserve atomicity with user features (tasks).

The method of having code reviews, leaves lots of down time for developers, and due to large code
reviews all at once, we may find a decrease in quality on the production branch. This could be fixed
as said before by having more regular and smaller code reviews.

The development strategy also lacks a definition of done in order to determine whether tasks
are completed beyond functionality. By having a definition of done, the team would benefit by
using the DOD give incentive for testing, code structure, following design patterns and consistent
code style, leading to a more readable and complete code base.

## Question 2: Agile Software Development - 10 marks for whole question

### Question 2a Explain the two different types of backlogs in a Scrum project. For each of them, explain what they contain by stressing their differences.

**Answer**

In a scrum backlog, their are some subsets, these are as follows

- Project Backlog
- Sprint Backlog

The **project backlog** lists all the stories the project manager wishes to be implemented in
the for-see-able future, this is different to the **sprint backlog** as the sprint backlog
only contains stories that the development team in conjunction with the project manager aim
to complete within the current sprint.

### Question 2b: What are the goals of a Retrospective meeting?

**Answer**

The goals of a retrospective is to find out **what the team did well in the last sprint**, **what
could be improved?** and what are some changes the **team will commit to in order to benefit the
next sprint?**, this will provide a basis and plan in order to improve the efficiency and enjoyment
of future sprints. This will result in constant improvement for the team, and learning progressively
better ways to approach the projects goals.

## Question 3: Code quality and reviews - 10 marks for whole question

Given the following code:

```java
public long longestCommonMultiple(int a, int b) { 
  List<Integer> multA = new ArrayList<>(); 
  List<Integer> multB = new ArrayList<>();
  int max = a * b;
  int current = 0;
  while (current <= max) {
    multA.add(a * current); 
    multB.add(b * current); 
    current++;
  }
  for (Integer integerA : multA) {
    for (Integer integerB : multB) { 
      if (integerA.equals(integerB)) {
        return integerA; 
        }
      } 
    }
    return max; 
  }
```

## Question 3a: Unit tests

Specify the unit tests you would write for this method, you can express the tests 
either in plain English or in mathematical form.

**Answer**

Take in a number of different inputs and confirm manually what the expected output
should be for each case, use unit testing to automate testing of each case, use
assert functions in order to check the output is correct for each case, because the
unit testing is automated, this will ensure that any future changes made to the function
will have to comply with the tests in order to not fail.

## Question 3b: Code Review

Write a review for this piece of code as you would do when assessing a merge request.



