# Exam 2019 Solutions

## Question One -> Requirement engineering (N/A)

## Question Two

a. Why scrum framework insists so much on cross-functional team members?

> A cross functional team does not require specific roles, is self contained with
> a team that shares knowledge of the entire code base, this allows a whole team
> to be collectively useful.

b. What is the main objective of a sprint retrospective in SCRUM

> To figure out and identify issues with communication, quality of code, safe environment,
> skills needed in the team, consistent styling and making sure the scope of code is correct, software
> design, standards, review, versioning. It is also a time to communicate with the PO, stakeholders or
> the team directly.

## Question Three

a. When merging a piece of code into the mainline of a code base, what is the most
important thing to review?

> The most important thing to review is to make sure that the most important features
> pass the acceptance criteria that we have outlined as a team.

b. Why file-based configurations should be preferred to GUI-based configurations? Give one
concrete example to support your argument.

> File based configurations are preferred due to the nature of them, a GUI configuration
> is reliant on the code that creates and manages the GUI, this is more things that
> can go wrong. Storage within a file makes the configuration easy to copy, easy to read
> and less likely to break. Another thing about configuration via a file is that it can
> have error messages that correlate to specific lines and is more manageable.

## Question Four - Unit testing


